Oracle Database 21c introduces three major improvements to enhance performance and ease of use when using Oracle Database In-Memory:
- Database In-Memory Vector Joins : Through the use of its newly enhanced Deep Vectorization SIMD Framework, Oracle Database In-Memory can accelerate operations like hash joins on columns held inside of the in-memory column store. In the case of a hash join, the join is broken down into smaller operations that can be passed to the vector processor. The key-value table used is SIMD optimized and used to match rows on the left and right-hand sides of the join. This approach can result in join performance improvements of up to 10 times over traditional methods.
- Self-Managing In-Memory Column Store : When Oracle Database In-Memory was first released, users had to explicitly declare which columns were to be populated into the In-Memory Column Store. This gave users a high degree of control if memory was tight. Oracle Database 18c introduced functionality that would automatically place objects in the Column Store if they are actively used and removed objects that weren't. However, users still had to indicate the objects to be considered. In Oracle Database 21c setting INMEMORY_AUTOMATIC_LEVEL to HIGH, ensures that all objects are considered - thereby simplifying the job of managing the in-memory column store.
- In-Memory Hybrid Columnar Scans : It is often not possible to have every column of every table populated in the Column Store because memory is limited. In many instances, this isn't an issue but every once in a while users may encounter a query which needs data(columns) from the Column Store and data that's only available in the row store. In previous releases of Oracle Database In-Memory, such querys would simply run against the row store. In Oracle Database 21c users can now use both! The optimizer can now elect to scan the In-Memory Column Store and fetch projected column values from the row store if needed. This can result in a significant improvements in performance.
